Queryable Content Types in Rust (#74)
xmtp/XIPs: XIPs/xip-48-content-type-local-db-integration.md

- [xmtp/proto Draft PR](https://github.com/xmtp/proto/pull/232)
- [libxmtp Draft PR](https://github.com/xmtp/libxmtp/pull/1345)
- [xmtp-android Draft PR](https://github.com/xmtp/xmtp-android/pull/343)

## Security considerations

No new security considerations are introduced with this XIP. The security considerations outlined by [XIP-5 Message Content Type](https://github.com/xmtp/XIPs/blob/main/XIPs/xip-5-message-content-types.md#security-considerations)s still apply and will be referenced here:

> This API change allows transmitting arbitrary and therefore potentially dangerous types of content. Complex decoding or presentation logic can trigger undesirable or dangerous behavior in the receiving client. The authority of any given content type SHOULD provide suitable guidance on how to handle the content type safely.

\* In the case of content types managed by the [XMTP GitHub organization](https://github.com/xmtp) the authority would be contributors/admins of the relevant GitHub repos.

### Threat model

> As usual, users and developers should aspire to be using the latest XMTP SDK versions whenever possible, but you can never be sure whether inboxes you are chatting with on XMTP are using older or modified versions of the SDK. This means that users could configure their messages to specify that they are sending a certain content type, but the format, contents, or intentions of the actual data in the message could be something different. Fortunately, we haven't identified any security issues that would arise from this possibility, but it is something developers utilizing "complex decoding or presentation logic" as mentioned in the quote above, should be aware of. If any more specific threats or example of misuse arise, this section will be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As usual, users and developers should aspire to use the latest XMTP SDK versions whenever possible, but you can never be sure whether inboxes you are chatting with on XMTP are using older or modified versions of the SDK. This means that users could configure their messages to specify that they are sending a certain content type, but the format, contents, or intentions of the actual data in the message could be something different. Fortunately, we haven't identified any security issues that would arise from this possibility, but it is something developers utilizing "complex decoding or presentation logic" as mentioned in the quote above, should be aware of. If any more specific threats or examples of misuse arise, this section will be updated.
```

  ContentTypeId type = 1;
  // optional encoding parameters required to correctly decode the content
  map<string, string> parameters = 2;
  // optional fallback description of the content that can be used in case
  // the client cannot decode or render the content
  optional string fallback = 3;
  // optional compression; the value indicates algorithm used to
  // compress the encoded content bytes
  optional Compression compression = 5;
  // encoded content itself
  bytes content = 4;
}
```

### Backward compatibility cases to consider

Users on older SDK versions both using JSON encoding will be fine, and new users both using protobuf encoding will be fine. The cases where backward compatibility will be an issue are the following:

#### 1. An older XMTP SDK version receives a message with a new protobuf content type

In this case, your SDK version should recognize that it does not know how to decode the content type because of it's higher ContentTypeId version, and it will instead use the fallback string of the EncodedContent wrapper struct.

#### 2. An older XMTP SDK version sends messages with old JSON content types to users on newer SDK versions

> One option is for integrator targeted SDKs to retain code for decoding older JSON content types. A second option is to update integrator targeted SDKs to only support the latest protobuf based content types that will work in new content type based message functions, and to only use fallback text for messages that are not compatible with the latest content types.

Reviewer 2: Agree that backwards compatibility isn't the top priority. The only thing that makes me lean towards the first option is how straightforward it should be.

Will make integrators lives easier if they can trust that any reaction they see will be decoded properly. I worry that if we don't integrators will see the fallback from older messages and try to parse it or manually decode the content.

Author: > I worry that if we don't integrators will see the fallback from older messages and try to parse it or manually decode the content.

Good point, and I agree it shouldnt be too difficult. Updated here https://github.com/xmtp/XIPs/pull/74/commits/f403869d734a4ff58f1379210a79df34d29d079c. (also simplified the backwards compatability section since it can be summarized as two cases instead of four)
